# Mark 1:9-15 #

First comes John. Where is John? "in the wilderness." (v 4). People come out to him. 

v. 9. "in those days". We get our first introduction of Jesus. From a place: Nazareth. He is baptized by John. We hear "You are my Son, the beloved." God is pleased with his son.

v. 12. What does God do with the person with whom he is very pleased? The Spirit drives him into the wilderness. Other ways this word is translated: expelled, thrown out, what Jesus did to demons! Tear out your eye... Blessed are you when people revile you and expel you... It's kind of a violent word!

It's not as if Jesus said, "I'm about to start my ministry, it would be good to spend some time in preparation." It's not even Jesus saying, "I think the Spirit might want me to spend some time in preparation." He is driven to the wilderness. 

Another thing: Jesus was already in the wilderness. He is sent even further away from the centers of population, where there is little food or even water. 


Jesus walked that lonesome valley? (sing)

Jesus was not alone in the wilderness, but he has no human company. He has:

- Satan
- beasts
- angels

Satan

We are familiar with the temptation story (hunger, temple, kingdoms of the world).

Mark is much shorter. We are simply told he is tempted.

Matthew says the point was to be tempted by Satan. So imagine that!

Wild beasts

No other gospel mentions the beasts.

"wild beasts" here just means non-domesticated animals. "natural" animals. Again, no people around. 

Wild animals, in the NT are usually a pretty negative image. Think of the beast of Revelation. In contrast, Jesus is the Lamb. 

This is not a return to the garden, but a place of testing.

He is up against spiritual powers, and natural ones. 

What do fierce, wild predators do when the come across a weakened man or a lamb? This is not a place of safety.

In the end, Jesus doesn't make it on his own. For one, there is another 'companion' that Jesus has, and that is the presence of the Holy Spirit who drove him there. In Luke's gospel, it is said that Jesus went into the wilderness "full of the Holy Spirit."

We are told that angels waited on him – same Greek word as 'servant' or 'deacon.' Matthew says this, too. I have no idea what this was like. Do you?

By imagination, let us put ourselves in Jesus's place. We are tempted and tried.

Take a minute and think about some specific way this might be true for you now or soon.

- Recognize that, although Satan is contemptible in his attempt to destroy us, we might, through the leading of the Holy Spirit, be in a situation in which God will im-prove us.

It's a moment of danger and risk and possible destruction. 

But it's also a moment to clearly see the Spirit in us, to have God's messengers serve us, to rely on the basic things we know – we don't live by bread alone, we don't need to put God to a test, we worship God alone.

Is anyone willing to share what that is for them?


By imagination, let us think about others is Jesus's place. People who are tempted and tried.

Take a minute and think about a specific person, or group of people.

Be glad for God's possible work in that moment.

Be 'instant in prayer.' They need help now!

Look for other ways to serve them. 

Is anyone willing to name that person or group?
  
