Mrk 4:30-32
30 He also said, “With what can we compare the kingdom of God, or what parable will we use for it? 31 It is like a mustard seed, which, when sown upon the ground, is the smallest of all the seeds on earth; 32 yet when it is sown it grows up and becomes the greatest of all shrubs, and puts forth large branches, so that the birds of the air can make nests in its shade.” 


Matt 13:31f
31 He put before them another parable: “The kingdom of heaven is like a mustard seed that someone took and sowed in his field; 32 it is the smallest of all the seeds, but when it has grown it is the greatest of shrubs and becomes a tree, so that the birds of the air come and make nests in its branches.” 

Luke 3:18f
18 He said therefore, “What is the kingdom of God like? And to what should I compare it? 19 It is like a mustard seed that someone took and sowed in the garden; it grew and became a tree, and the birds of the air made nests in its branches.” 

Matt 17:20
He said to them, “Because of your little faith. For truly, I say to you, if you have faith like a grain of mustard seed, you will say to this mountain, ‘Move from here to there,’ and it will move, and nothing will be impossible for you.”

-- 
Mrk 9:14-29
14 When they came to the disciples, they saw a great crowd around them, and some scribes arguing with them. 15 When the whole crowd saw him, they were immediately overcome with awe, and they ran forward to greet him. 16 He asked them, “What are you arguing about with them?” 17 Someone from the crowd answered him, “Teacher, I brought you my son; he has a spirit that makes him unable to speak; 18 and whenever it seizes him, it dashes him down; and he foams and grinds his teeth and becomes rigid; and I asked your disciples to cast it out, but they could not do so.” 19 He answered them, “You faithless generation, how much longer must I be among you? How much longer must I put up with you? Bring him to me.” 20 And they brought the boy​to him. When the spirit saw him, immediately it convulsed the boy,​and he fell on the ground and rolled about, foaming at the mouth. 21 Jesus​asked the father, “How long has this been happening to him?” And he said, “From childhood. 22 It has often cast him into the fire and into the water, to destroy him; but if you are able to do anything, have pity on us and help us.” 23 Jesus said to him, “If you are able!—All things can be done for the one who believes.” 24 Immediately the father of the child cried out [with tears],​ “I believe; help my unbelief!” 25 When Jesus saw that a crowd came running together, he rebuked the unclean spirit, saying to it, “You spirit that keeps this boy from speaking and hearing, I command you, come out of him, and never enter him again!” 26 After crying out and convulsing him terribly, it came out, and the boy was like a corpse, so that most of them said, “He is dead.” 27 But Jesus took him by the hand and lifted him up, and he was able to stand. 28 When he had entered the house, his disciples asked him privately, “Why could we not cast it out?” 29 He said to them, “This kind can come out only through prayer [and fasting].”​​

Matt 17:14-21
14 When they came to the crowd, a man came to him, knelt before him, 15 and said, “Lord, have mercy on my son, for he is an epileptic and he suffers terribly; he often falls into the fire and often into the water. 16 And I brought him to your disciples, but they could not cure him.” 17 Jesus answered, “You faithless and perverse generation, how much longer must I be with you? How much longer must I put up with you? Bring him here to me.” 18 And Jesus rebuked the demon,​and it​came out of him, and the boy was cured instantly. 19 Then the disciples came to Jesus privately and said, “Why could we not cast it out?” 20 He said to them, “Because of your little faith. For truly I tell you, if you have faith the size of a mustard seed, you will say to this mountain, ‘Move from here to there,’ and it will move; and nothing will be impossible for you.”​[Other ancient authorities add verse 21, But this kind does not come out except by prayer and fasting.]

Luke 9:37-43
37 On the next day, when they had come down from the mountain, a great crowd met him. 38 Just then a man from the crowd shouted, “Teacher, I beg you to look at my son; he is my only child. 39 Suddenly a spirit seizes him, and all at once he​j​ shrieks. It convulses him until he foams at the mouth; it mauls him and will scarcely leave him. 40 I begged your disciples to cast it out, but they could not.” 41 Jesus answered, “You faithless and perverse generation, how much longer must I be with you and bear with you? Bring your son here.” 42 While he was coming, the demon dashed him to the ground in convulsions. But Jesus rebuked the unclean spirit, healed the boy, and gave him back to his father. 43 And all were astounded at the greatness of God. 

Luke 17:5f
5 The apostles said to the Lord, “Increase our faith!” 6 The Lord replied, “If you had faith the size of a mustard seed, you could say to this mulberry tree, ‘Be uprooted and planted in the sea,’ and it would obey you.  

the tree image OT: (Ez. 17:22 f.; 31:6; Da. 4:9, 18).  

To root out or tear up mountains means to do the impossible. Talmud.

"The first impression made by the saying is that Jesus is recognising even the smallest and weakest faith. In reality, however, He is showing that faith should cease to think about itself. He is pointing to the kingdom of God, which is not proportionate to the faith of the disciples. The impossible becomes possible when faith looks away from itself.
Theological dictionary of the New Testament. 1964- (G. Kittel, G. W. Bromiley & G. Friedrich, Ed.) (electronic ed.). Grand Rapids, MI: Eerdmans."


The saying about the small faith that works miracles comes in three different versions and in different contexts. The grain of mustard seed is used in order to show that the largest promise attaches even to the smallest faith. What counts is simply faith, not the quantity of faith. Faith, looking to God, lets God work, and so the impossible is possible for it. This explains the link with prayer in Mk. 11:23 (cf. Mt. 17:20 in the light of Mk. 9:29).
Kittel, G., Friedrich, G., & Bromiley, G. W. (1995). Theological Dictionary of the New Testament (1028). Grand Rapids, MI: W.B. Eerdmans.   

--
Mustard seed superheroes
http://asimpledesire.wordpress.com/2010/02/22/mustard-seed-superheroes/
The apostles said to the Lord, “Increase our faith!” He replied, “If you have faith as small as a mustard seed, you can say to this mulberry tree, ‘Be uprooted and planted in the sea,’ and it will obey you.” (Luke 17:5-6)

My aunt had a Bible with a zipper that had a tab containing a small, clear plastic ball. Encased in the ball was a mustard seed. I remember looking at the seed and wondering what it was; it wasn’t until later that I learned the expression from Jesus, “the faith of a mustard seed.”

I find it interesting that Jesus answers their question in the way he did. Did he really think what they wanted was to throw mulberry trees into the sea? I imagine that a superhero whose special power was throwing mulberry trees into the sea would have a limited following. I think–perhaps–that this is a joke on Jesus’ part. In any case, Jesus is telling them that they already have enough faith, or that the faith implanted in them was already sufficient.

Faith is one of those words that is so hard to pin down. Christians and other religious believers are often criticized for believing in things without evidence. And often we are rightly so criticized, because faith is sometimes defined as believing without or despite evidence. The ability to telekinetically cast mulberry trees into the sea has never been observed, and all the evidence suggests its impossibility. But ask a Christian if she could do so, she’d probably say yes–if her faith was “enough,” or “sufficient.” How silly this makes us look!

Instead, we might ask what we are supposed to be about. In another use of “mustard seed,” Jesus likens the kingdom of God to a mustard seed that is planted and grows into a great tree “where birds can come and find shelter in its branches.” Jesus doesn’t call us to be workers of physical miracles, but to be part of his growing, sheltering kingdom. This does require faith, and even more so, faithfulness. Though the church has never been good at tree-throwing, it has, at times, been good at nurturing changed lives, providing shelter for those in need, and seeing God’s kingdom grow in love.

The superheroes that the Kingdom of God creates perform works of extraordinary love. How will God’s love shine through you this week? Do you believe you have enough faith for this? It doesn’t really matter; Jesus reminds you that you already have enough faith to love.