Dear ones,

Sunday night, I received a telephone call from Dan Miller. Dan is the lead conference minister for the Indiana-Michigan Mennonite Conference, and called on behalf of the Missional Leadership Team of the conference, to catch me up on the state of our application for membership in the conference, and my special-purpose license for the fellowship.

Dan started by bringing the regret of the Missional Leadership Team for the way our application for conference was handled, and an apology by the team for this. 

Dan also told me of the plan the the Missional Leadership Team has for our applications. In a nutshell:

  - They would like us to resend the information they require of new churches. I think this is what they want: assurance that the Kalamazoo Mennonite Fellowship does or will:
     a. maintain a list of members who have covenanted together in a common life of obedience to Christ,
     b. confess a faith consistent with the historical Mennonite confessions of faith,
     c. provide for spiritual and administrative leadership with adequate material support for leaders,
     d. be willing to give and receive counsel in its relationship with nearby congregations and the conference,
     e. support the work of the conference with active participation, prayers, personnel and funds.
Our draft constitution, which addresses most of these, can be found at http://kmenno.org/constitution.html
  - They would like to have this process totally completed by March, at which time they would introduce us to the conference at their spring meeting. If this happens, then it is possible that we would be accepted into the conference at the Summer of 2010 conference meeting. There is no promise that they could move quickly enough, however; and it might be Summer of 2011 before they could bring it to an official vote.
  - They suggest that I be mentored by Tom Schwartz (of Pine Grove Mennonite Church, our mother church) if he is willing and able to do so.
  - The Missional Leadership Team would like to meet with me at some point.

I can say that I was a bit discouraged by the conversation, since it was my understanding that the Missional Leadership Team was working hard to get our congregation brought into association *before* the annual meeting next July based on previous statements and assurances we have received.


I think we have several options:

1. We can do as Dan and the Missional Leadership Team suggests. 
2. We can decide not to work on affiliation with anyone at this time.
3. We can consider affiliating with the Central District Mennonite Conference, which has five churches in Michigan (including CarolSue's former congregation at Florence, as well as the churches in East Lansing and Ann Arbor; Central District also holds CarolSue's credentials).
4. We can consider affiliating with some other body.
5. We can close up shop or join some other local body.

I know we discussed having a congregational meeting some time ago, but it's been difficult to hold such a meeting. I would be glad if you would:

- Send me a note with your thoughts on what you think might be the best step forward.
- Be willing to spend a little time this Sunday talking over this question, if you are able to attend worship. (I know CarolSue will be working.)

I told Dan that I would try to get a sense of the Fellowship's response to his proposal by the 18th of November, and I'd like to keep to that promise if I can and we have such a sense. Please do be prayerfully thinking about this, and please do send me a note. 

Will

P.S. Here is my history of our relationship with the Indiana-Michigan Mennonite Conference so far. Don't feel like you have to read this, but you might find it useful.

History of relationship between Kalamazoo Mennonite Fellowship and Indiana-Michigan Mennonite Conference

August 9, 2006. I wrote Tim Lichti, then a conference minister, asking that he meet with us as we began planning the Kalamazoo Mennonite Fellowship. 

Ocotber 11, 2006. Tim Lichti and Tim Stair were finally able to meet with us to discuss our goals and vision. We asked then what the proper process would be for being "official."

December 7, 2006. Tim Lichti wrote me asking how things were going, and asking to reconnect. I suggested around the holidays. No meeting took place. 

January 11, 2007. I sent a note to Tim Lichti and Tim Stair letting them know we were starting on January 28, and a note to Tim L. asking if we could use the conference tax exempt number.

January 26, 2007. Tim Lichti wrote about the tax exempt situation, and about the process. He wrote, "Technically we need to take official action by Mission Commission and then Executive committee to note this effort." and "I am assuming that having the “recognition” of a new work is something that would mean a lot and to this end I am committed to work." He also said he would be unable to attend our first meeting, but blessed our effort. He also said Tim Stair had been asked to send us some contacts in the Kalamazoo area.

January 28, 2007. Kalamazoo Mennonite Fellowship meets for the first time. I write a small report to Tim Lichti and Tim Stair the next day.

February 2, 2007. I write Tim Lichti and Tim Stair, asking for contact information. I don't have a recorded email response.

April 8, 2007. I write Tim Lichti about the appropriateness of our serving communion. No response is given.

October 12, 2008. I write Tim Lichti asking again about greater interactions with the conference, including (1) becoming an official body, (2) taking communion, and (2) collecting and dispersing money. Tim responds that he would like to meet. 

October 30, 2008. Tim Lichti meets with us. I think it is at this meeting that Tim recommends I apply for special licensing and promises to discuss us with the Christian Life Committee.  He asked for some information be written up about our fellowship, which I send on November 4.

November 20, 2008. Tim Lichti sends a note with the constitution information about conference association requirements.

December 10, 2008. Bess Fitzgerald and I attend a Christian Life Committee meeting where we present the Kalamazoo Mennonite Fellowship to the committee. 

December 12, 2008. I talk to Nancy Kauffmann, then a conference minister, about Licensing for Specific Ministry, who provides me with the information I need. I start filling out the online form.

March 21, 2009. I finish Ministerial Leadership Information process, and request references.

April 16, 2009. Dan Miller, now the sole conference minister, writes asking whether the Ministerial Leadership Information form had bee submitted; there was some difficulty in getting references done. 

April 26-27, 2009. I write Dan Miller to check on the Ministerial Leadership Information status, and he says he has received it. 

June 3, 2009. I, along with Bess, meet with the Christian Life Committee for a Licensing for Specific Ministry interview. The committee graciously meets at an irregular time, because they want to have the interview take place in order that my licensing be submitted to the conference. We are assured that everything is in place for us to be received into the conference.

June 19-21, 2009. Annual Conference takes place, but the Missional Leadership Team has decided they do not have enough information to process our application (to our surprise, and, I think, to the Christian Life Committee). I travel to the conference to make a last ditch effort to convince the Missional Leadership Team to live up to its assurances. Without a congregation, my licensing is unnecessary. 

c. June 23, 2009. Brent Eash, moderator of the Missional Leadership Team, calls to discuss what happened, and possible next steps. Basically, there is hope that the conference can take a special action to bring us into the conference before next summer's meeting. 

July, 2009. Brent Eash, visits Kalamazoo Mennonite Fellowship for worship.

July 26, 2009. Nice visit from Tina Schlabach who attends worship and brings words of encouragement. "Please be assured that this process will continue in a timely way this fall.  It is our strong recommendation unanimously as a CLC  group that we find a way to do this without waiting until next summer's next conference gathering."

October 8, 2009. Dan Miller writes to apologize on behalf of the Missional Leadership Team, and to suggest a new plan: we be introduced at the Spring meeting, and possibly be brought into membership at the 2010 summer conference gathering (although no promises are given). There are missing responses required for conference membership. Dan also suggest I mentor with a current pastor. 
